website/integrations: Jellyfin: cleanup (#23293)
goauthentik/authentik: website/integrations/media/jellyfin/index.md

### Create the LDAP service account

Create a dedicated service account for Jellyfin by following the [service account creation](/docs/add-secure-apps/providers/ldap/create-ldap-provider/#create-a-service-account) and [LDAP search permission](/docs/add-secure-apps/providers/ldap/create-ldap-provider/#assign-the-ldap-search-permission-to-the-service-account) steps in the LDAP provider documentation.

Use the service account's DN and token in the Jellyfin LDAP plugin configuration. With the placeholders from this guide, the service account DN is:

```text
cn=ldap_service_account,ou=users,dc=company,dc=com
```

If access to the authentik LDAP application is restricted, allow the LDAP service account access via the application's [policy, group, or user bindings](/docs/add-secure-apps/applications/manage_apps/#use-bindings-to-control-access).

### Create an access group

Create groups that grant user and administrator access to Jellyfin.

1. Navigate to **Directory** > **Groups** and click **Create**.
2. Set **Name** to a group name such as `jellyfin_users`.
3. Click **Create**.
4. Open the group, select the **Users** tab, and add the users who should have access to Jellyfin.

> 5. Repeat these steps with a group name such as `jellyfin_admins` if you want LDAP group membership to grant Jellyfin administrator access.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Repeat these steps with a group name such as `jellyfin_admins` if you want to grant Jellyfin administrator access via LDAP group membership.
```

## Jellyfin configuration

> 1. Navigate to your Jellyfin installation and log in with the administrator account or currently configured local administrator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Log in to Jellyfin as an administrator.
```

> 2. Open the **Administrator dashboard** by selecting your profile icon in the top-right corner, then clicking **Dashboard**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Open the **Administrator Dashboard** by clicking your profile icon in the top-right corner and selecting **Dashboard**.
```

4. Restart Jellyfin if prompted.
5. Return to **Plugins**, click the three dots on the **LDAP-Auth Plugin** card, and click **Settings**.
6. Under **LDAP Server Settings**, configure the following settings:
    - **LDAP Server**: `ldap.company`
    - **LDAP Port**: `636`
    - **Secure LDAP**: enabled
    - **LDAP Bind User**: `cn=ldap_service_account,ou=users,dc=company,dc=com`
    - **LDAP Bind User Password**: enter the token for the LDAP service account.
    - **LDAP Base DN for searches**: `dc=company,dc=com`

7. If the LDAP outpost uses a certificate that Jellyfin does not trust, either configure **LDAP Root CA Path** with the certificate authority bundle or enable **Skip SSL/TLS Verification**.
8. Click **Save and Test LDAP Server Settings**. If the settings are correct, Jellyfin shows successful connect, bind, and base search results.
9. Under **LDAP User Settings**, configure the following settings:
    - **LDAP Search Filter**: `(memberOf=cn=jellyfin_users,ou=groups,dc=company,dc=com)`
    - **LDAP Search Attributes**: `uid, cn, mail, displayName`
    - **LDAP Uid Attribute**: `uid`
    - **LDAP Username Attribute**: `cn`

> 10. To grant Jellyfin administrator access through LDAP, set **LDAP Admin Filter** to `(memberOf=cn=jellyfin_admins,ou=groups,dc=company,dc=com)`. If you leave this empty, configure Jellyfin administrator access manually.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
10. _(Optional)_ Set **LDAP Admin Filter** to `(memberOf=cn=jellyfin_admins,ou=groups,dc=company,dc=com)` to grant Jellyfin administrator access based on LDAP group membership. Otherwise, leave this unset and assign Jellyfin administrator access manually.
```

11. Click **Save and Test LDAP Filter Settings**. If the settings are correct, Jellyfin shows the number of matching users and administrators.
12. Enter a username in **Test Login Name**, then click **Save Search Attribute Settings and Query User** to confirm that Jellyfin can find the user.
13. Under **Jellyfin User Settings**, configure the following settings:
    - **Enable User Creation**: enabled
    - **Library Access**: select the libraries that new LDAP users can access.

14. Click **Save**.
15. Restart Jellyfin.

## Configuration verification

To confirm that authentik is properly configured with Jellyfin, log out of Jellyfin and log back in with an LDAP user from authentik. Use the user's username; logging in with an email address is not supported by this configuration.

If the login does not succeed, open **Administration** > **Dashboard** > **Logs** in Jellyfin and review the LDAP plugin log entries near the bottom of the newest log file.

## Resources

- [Jellyfin LDAP Authentication plugin](https://github.com/jellyfin/jellyfin-plugin-ldapauth)

> - [Jellyfin plugin installation documentation](https://jellyfin.org/docs/general/server/plugins/#installing)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Jellyfin plugin installation](https://jellyfin.org/docs/general/server/plugins/#installing)
```
